Asset Eligibility Framework
DRE – Direct Investment Strategies | Eligibility Criteria

Master Trust
Strategy – Vacant Land & Development Sites (No Income) 
To provide short-medium term loans and investments into a diversified number of first ranking senior mortgages and debt securities against suitable value added property in good demand suburbs that align with the Trust’s investment strategy.  

The DRE Trust (“Trust”) may invest in major capital cities/suburbs and property types, but it should have a priority focus on Sydney NSW Australia; and a  focus on diversification in property class types to avoid concentration to a single  type of market or demand.  

All investment return targets generated should be priced to out-perform BBSW/GB3 + 500 bps as a benchmark annual return with quarterly distributions pre-paid and monthly interest payment distributions available. 

The Trust should make loans that are diversified across: new-built and occupiable apartments/townhouses; warehouse/industrial; established dwellings; and land or subdivision that is either occupiable or developable.  

Investments should follow the Trust’s proprietary investment strategy criteria of:

Focus on good locations and suburbs. Invest where demand/supply metrics are favourable and there is desire for stock. Location and demand will be the primary safety buffer.

Diversification across different types of property stock end types (apartment, townhouse, land subdivision and industrial) instead of solely postcode/geographical diversification. 

Higher weighting towards Sydney & NSW investments.

Avoid any investment in construction of residential multi-level apartments outside of Sydney NSW.

Focus on new-built residential stock or land in preference to older/aged buildings (suburb-driven exceptions considered).

Focus on relatively boutique and smaller buildings due to more demand and absorption sales rates. 

Avoid large-scale or more than 8 story level residential multi unit active construction loans. 

Diversify and invest in varying loan type durations to provide  liquidity and redemptions during the term of the Trust. 

New loans should be shorter duration with no greater than 12-18 months repayment terms with ability of refinancing or assignment  options to provide liquidity or sell-down where necessary. 

Extensions granted to repayment dates should be aligned with and considered in terms of liquidity and redemptions by the Client and Trust and be periodically reviewed. 

Developers and builders must have a 100% completion record in the preceding 5 years as a minimum requirement.

Commercial Buildings Sub Assets
Strategy (Commercial Assets with Income) 
To originate and manage a separate portfolio of shorter-term loans and investments for the investor group to focus on investments that generate annual target returns above BBSW/GB3 + 600bps that also have passing commercial yield holding and income. 

To invest into first ranking mortgages and securities in respect of eligible property types in good demand suburbs that align with the Trustee’s investment strategy as advised to the investor group and in line with the investment strategy of the Trust. 

To invest in first ranking loans (with sale/equity convertible rights) of any significant commercial landholding strategically next to infrastructure, retail and town centres, major transport links. 

The investment strategy has compelling drivers due to:

The composition of a range of investments in a variety of property class types within the portfolio will allow for the opportunity for tranche distributions and liquidity events during  the term of investment. 

Diversification for the fund to gain exposure away from solely residential property to strategic commercial landholding assets close to critical infrastructure connectivity and new residential communities.

Procure at-scale commercial asset that will provide diversification  from residential investments already made but also avoids commercial vacancy risk with downside protection due to any existing or long-term committed tenant that has better than average retention rates.

Focus on long WALE coupled with a sale / lease back rights is favourable due to the ongoing income that would be generated on the existing building; and as a hedge on the additional vacant  lands that can further be made developable for other uses (including hotel or co-living accommodation or seniors living) to a range of operators.

Focus on sites suitable for consideration and approvals under Housing Delivery Authority (HDA) criterias and this strategy should be explored for further uplift improvement to the asset (subject to fee and time proposals).

Focus on assets with commercial component with a long-term tenant and lease could be refinanced and the investment could be redeemed in whole or part, allowing for the re-deployment of investment capital and liquidity for the investor during the investment term.
